Feature #2360 Contributor's Guide - MET unit tests (#3121)
dtcenter/MET: docs/Contributors_Guide/testing.rst

Testing
*******

make test
=========

> Coming Soon!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After MET has been compiled, run ``make test`` from the top-level directory to execute the scripts found in the ``scripts/examples`` directory. These scripts run a subset of the MET tools reading input data from the top-level ``data`` directory and configuration files from the ``scripts/config`` directory and write output to top-level ``out`` directory. Successful completion of these tests provides reasonable assurance that MET has been compiled well and is running properly. However, these sample scripts are not comprehensive and do not exercise all possible configuration options. So its possible for the ``make test`` scripts to run without error, but for users to later encounter issues when running MET with new inputs files and configuration options.
```

Unit Tests
==========

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The MET unit tests offer much more thorough testing coverage of the MET tools than running ``make test``, as described above. These units tests provide the basis for the regression testing performed for each pull request. Logic exists in GitHub automation to run these unit tests and check for differences in the output. However, these unit tests can also be run locally and instructions for doing so are provided in this section.
 
```

Running Unit Tests
------------------

Obtain Input Data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To run the MET unit tests locally, the input data must be obtained. It can be downloaded
`here <https://dtcenter.ucar.edu/dfiles/code/METplus/MET/MET_unit_test/develop/unit_test-all.tgz>`_.
Extract the data into a directory that will be used to set the **MET_TEST_INPUT** environment variable.

Set Up Environment
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Set the required environment variables needed to run.

> * **MET_BASE** - Path to the *share/met* directory where MET is installed. This is used to find the MET executables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **MET_BASE** - Path to the *share/met* directory where MET is installed. This is used to find the MET executables and static data files.
```

* **MET_TEST_BASE** - Path to the MET/internal/test_unit directory that contains the unit test files

> * **MET_TEST_INPUT** - Directory containing unit test input data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **MET_TEST_INPUT** - Directory containing unit test input data
```

* **MET_TEST_OUTPUT** - Directory to write test output

Example::

    export MET_BASE=/path/to/install/MET/share/met
    export MET_TEST_BASE=/path/to/src/MET/internal/test_unit
    export MET_TEST_INPUT=/path/to/MET_unit_test
    export MET_TEST_OUTPUT=/path/to/my/output_dir

> Other environment variables that may need to be set include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other environment variables required for some of the unit tests include:
```

* **MET_TEST_MET_PYTHON_EXE** - Path to Python executable to use for Python Embedding tests
* **MET_TEST_RSCRIPT** - Path to Rscript executable used to run R script tests
* **MET_FONT_DIR** - Path to font files, e.g. ${MET_TEST_INPUT}/fonts

Run the tests
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Navigate to the *internal/test_unit* directory of the MET repository::

    cd ${MET_TEST_BASE}

To run all of the unit tests, call the *bin/unit_test.sh* script::

    ./bin/unit_test.sh

To run a single unit test group, call the *python/unit.py* script, passing it an XML test config file::

    ./python/unit.py ./xml/unit_pcp_combine.xml

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To generate commands corresponding to a single unit test group, but not actually execute those commands, add the *-cmd* command line argument and redirect the output to a file::

    ./python/unit.py ./xml/unit_pcp_combine.xml -cmd > unit_pcp_combine.sh

Extracting individual commands to be executed in this way can be convenient during the software development process.

```

.. note::

   Some unit tests depend on the output of other unit tests.

>    For example, *unit_plot_data_plane.xml* requires output from *unit_pcp_combine.xml*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For example, *unit_plot_data_plane.xml* requires output from *unit_pcp_combine.xml*. Those dependencies are generally noted in comments at the top of each unit test xml file.
```

This will create the *v13.0* directory, copy the latest tarfile and volume mount files into *v13.0*,
extract the tarfile contents into the *v13.0*, and update the symbolic links in the *develop* directory
to point to the files in *v13.0*.

Adding new test files
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. note::

   These instructions require access to run commands as the *met_test* user on the DTC web server.

Updates to the input data, e.g. adding new test files, are made on the DTC web server.
The next time the MET CI unit tests are run,
the web server will be checked and the input data will be updated automatically.
Note that the unit tests are only run for develop/main branches or running via workflow dispatch.
A push event to a branch will not run the full unit test suite and therefore will not update the input data.

In the *MET_unit_test* directory, there is a directory called *unit_test*.
These files are the full set of fields and fields used for the unit tests.
**These files are used by the MET regression tests that are run locally.**

First, add any new files to the *unit_test* directory so they will be available to the MET regression tests.

Example::

>     cp /path/to/my/file.ext MET_unit_test/unit_test/DIRNAME/

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    cp /path/to/my/file.ext MET_unit_test/unit_test/DIRNAME/
```
I think you need a blank line to format well.

Next, add the new input files in the *unit_test* directory under the *vX.Y* directory that
corresponds to the current development cycle.

Example::

>     cp /path/to/my/file.ext MET_unit_test/v23.1/unit_test/DIRNAME/

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    cp /path/to/my/file.ext MET_unit_test/v23.1/unit_test/DIRNAME/
```
Think you need a blank line to format well.

Testing
*******

make test
=========

> After MET has been compiled, run ``make test`` from the top-level directory to execute the scripts found in the ``scripts/examples`` directory. These scripts run a subset of the MET tools reading input data from the top-level ``data`` directory and configuration files from the ``scripts/config`` directory and write output to top-level ``out`` directory. Successful completion of these tests provides reasonable assurance that MET has been compiled well and is running properly. However, these sample scripts are not comprehensive and do not exercise all possible configuration options. So its possible for the ``make test`` scripts to run without error, but for users to later encounter issues when running MET with new inputs files and configuration options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After MET has been compiled, run ``make test`` from the top-level directory to execute the scripts found in the ``scripts/examples`` directory. These scripts run a subset of the MET tools reading input data from the top-level ``data`` directory and configuration files from the ``scripts/config`` directory and write output to top-level ``out`` directory. Successful completion of these tests provides reasonable assurance that MET has been compiled well and is running properly. However, these sample scripts are not comprehensive and do not exercise all possible configuration options. So it's possible for the ``make test`` scripts to run without error, but for users to later encounter issues when running MET with new inputs files and configuration options.
```

Unit Tests
==========

The MET unit tests offer much more thorough testing coverage of the MET tools than running ``make test``, as described above. These units tests provide the basis for the regression testing performed for each pull request. Logic exists in GitHub automation to run these unit tests and check for differences in the output. However, these unit tests can also be run locally and instructions for doing so are provided in this section.
 
Running Unit Tests
------------------

Obtain Input Data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To run the MET unit tests locally, the input data must be obtained. It can be downloaded
`here <https://dtcenter.ucar.edu/dfiles/code/METplus/MET/MET_unit_test/develop/unit_test-all.tgz>`_.
Extract the data into a directory that will be used to set the **MET_TEST_INPUT** environment variable.

Set Up Environment
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Set the required environment variables needed to run.

* **MET_BASE** - Path to the *share/met* directory where MET is installed. This is used to find the MET executables and static data files.

> * **MET_TEST_BASE** - Path to the MET/internal/test_unit directory that contains the unit test files

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **MET_TEST_BASE** - Path to the *MET/internal/test_unit* directory that contains the unit test files
```
Should this be in italics too?  I noticed the paths above and below are, but thought maybe it wasn't because the "MET" directory would actually be something like MET-12.0.2, but thought I'd check in with you about it.
